When you write programs, you often need to print calculation results, text, or any other type of data. Also, throughout this educational platform, you will write a lot of programs that print data on the screen. Let's learn how to do that using a standard approach in Java.

##### Displaying text using #println() and print()

**Standard output** is a receiver to which a program can send information as text. It is supported by all common operating systems. Java provides a special `System.out` object to work with the standard output. We will often use it to print data.

The `println` method displays the passed string followed by a new line on the screen (**print-line**). For example, the following code snippet prints four lines.

```java
System.out.println("I ");
System.out.println("know ");
System.out.println("Java ");
System.out.println("well.");
```

Here is the output we get:

```no-highlight
I
know
Java
well.
```

All the strings were printed as they are, without double quotes.

This method allows you to print an empty line when no string is given:

```java
System.out.println("Java is a popular programming language.");
System.out.println(); // prints empty line
System.out.println("It is used all over the world!");
```

And here is the output:

```no-highlight
Java is a popular programming language.

It is used all over the world!
```

The `print` method displays the value that was passed in and places the cursor (the position where we display a value) after it. For example, the code below outputs all strings in a single line.

```java
System.out.print("I ");
System.out.print("know ");
System.out.print("Java ");
System.out.print("well.");
```

We receive the following output:

```no-highlight
I know Java well.
```

Pay attention to the spaces between words. We pass them to the method for printing.

##### Printing numbers and characters

Both `println` and `print` methods allow a program to print not only strings and characters, but also numbers.

Let's print two secret codes.

```java
System.out.print(108);   // printing a number
System.out.print('c');   // printing a character that represents a letter
System.out.print("Q");   // printing a string
System.out.println('3'); // printing a character that represents a digit

System.out.print(22);
System.out.print('E');
System.out.print(8);
System.out.println('1');
```

Here is our output:

```no-highlight
108cQ3
22E81
```

As is the case with strings, none of the printed characters contain quotes.

##### Conclusion

In Java, you can print data via the standard output using the `System.out` object. You can use the `println` method to display the passed string in a print-line and the `print` method to output all passed strings in a single line. Both of these methods also allow for printing numbers as well as characters.

[[6. Integer Types and Operations]]
